We propose a new family of distributions called exponentiated Kumaraswamy-
G class with three extra positive parameters, which generalizes 
Cordeiro and de Castro's family. Some special distributions in new class
are discussed. We derive some mathematical properties ofproposed
class including explicit expressions forquantile function, ordinary and
incomplete moments, generating function, mean deviations, reliability, Rényi
entropy and Shannon entropy.method of maximum likelihood is used to
tdistributions inproposed class. Simulations are performed in order
to assessasymptotic behavior ofmaximum likelihood estimates.
We illustrate its potentiality with applications to two real data sets which
show thatextended Weibull model innew class provides a better t
than other generalized Weibull distributions.

In paper,structure of semicompeting risks data, dened by Fine,
Jiang & Chappell (2001), is studied. Two events are of interest: a nonterminal
and a terminal event,last one, can censornon-terminal
event, but not vice versa. Due topossible dependence betweentimes
untiloccurrence of such events, two approaches are evaluated: modelling
the bivariate survival function through Archimedean copulas and a shared
frailty model. A simulation is conducted to examine its performance and
both approaches are applied to a real data set of patients with chronic kidney
disease (CKD).

Copula function have been extensively used in applied statistics, becom-
ing a good alternative for modelingdependence of multivariate data.
Each copula function has a different dependence structure. An important is-
sue in these applications ischoice of an appropriate copula function model
for each case where standard classical or Bayesian discrimination methods
could be not appropriate to decide bybest copula. Considering only
the special case of bivariate data, we propose a procedure obtained from a
recently dependence measure introduced inliterature to select an appro-
priate copula forstatistical data analyses.

Gamma regression models are a suitable choice to model continuous vari-
ables that take positive real values. paper presents a gamma regression
model with mixed effects from a Bayesian approach. We useparametri-
sation ofgamma distribution in terms ofmean andshape pa-
rameter, both of which are modelled through regression structures that may
involve fixed and random effects. A computational implementation via Gibbs
sampling is provided and illustrative examples (simulated and real data) are
presented.

We review recent developments related to inference for function defined
at spatial locations. We  consider time series of function defined at
irregularly distributed spatial points or on a grid. We focus on kriging,
estimation offunctional mean and principal components, and significance
testing, giving special attention to testing spatio–temporal separability in 
context of functional data. We  highlight some ideas related to extreme
value theory for spatially indexed functional time series.

This work presents a Bayesian approach for estimatinglimiting avail-
ability of an one-unit repairable system. A Bayesian analysis is developed
considering an informative prior and a less informative prior distribution,
respectively. Simulations are presented to studyperformance of 
Bayesian solutions.maximum likelihood method is  revisited. Fi-
nally, a case study is considered,Bayesian methodology is applied to
estimatelimiting availability of a palletizer, which is used inpack-
aging of glass bottles. Extensions to a coherent system are  discussed.

